>> Jon Kuperman: All right, so
maybe a little mini lesson on how
to read standard specifications,
which I think is a very difficult thing,
but a really important skill.
So, this look will be familiar to you
if you read any W3C specifications so,
for example,
this is the WCAG accessibility one.
But you could just as easily
imagine like the W3C HTML spec, and
you could click on the HTML5 spec,
and it looks surprisingly similar.
And you can do the same thing
with TC39 specification, and
find the 2025 and it looks more orange,
but basically the exact same.
So, these are the sort of outputs that
we as standards bodies create, and
we usually create them quarterly or
annually, new features as they come.
So you can imagine with accessibility
like these ARIA roles or attributes,
it might actually be good just to
kind of visualize how this works.
So let's say that you
come up with an idea for
a new ARIA role that's like
sorely missing, right?
And what you do is you join W3C, either as
a paying member or as an invited expert,
and you attend the WCAG working group,
the way group, working on this and
you present.
I have this idea for
this role that I think is missing.
And it has to go through this consensus
process and if there's consensus that it's
important, it starts this kind of multi
stage process where you as the champion is
often how we refer to an ecma,
have to come up with a problem statement,
a solution, then you have to write
a lot of this specification text.
And the point of this specification text,
is that it should be thorough enough that
every implementer, in like this case
every browser should be able to implement
the exact same bit of functionality.
So it sort of becomes this thought
exercise and like edge cases and rules and
you really want to come up with this thing
that for all HTML, CSS, JavaScript and
accessibility, you should be able to
take this document, give it to Google,
give it to Apple, give it to Mozilla.
And they should come back with
websites that render websites,
with browsers that render
websites in the exact same way.
So the challenge becomes one
of being extremely thorough.
That sort of makes sense at a high level
that you basically wanna think of.
Here's the new rule, here's what it's for,
here's how it acts, here's how you would
implement it, here's how it works with
other things, here's how a collision.
We had all these good questions today
like, what about two assertive ARIA live
regions colliding with each other,
that should be documented somewhere.
Or we had one on chat, which was like,
what if your button's focus state is
the same color as the button, but
it is in contrast with the background,
is that good enough?
So all these great questions, these
are things that ought to be in the spec so
that all the browsers can implement
it in the exact same way.
And when it's not good enough in the spec,
we end up with divergent behavior,
which can end up with a bunch of bugs and
they're hard to fix later.
So, when you're looking at the
specification, I think the important thing
to know is that it's not authored
to you as an application developer,
it really is authored to implementers.
However that doesn't mean it can't
be a tremendous resource to you.
So I'll give an example here with
the example I just gave of the button and
the focus.
We had a question in chat and I wasn't
sure if the rules stated that the focus
ring needed to be in contrast to both
the background and the button, or
just one I wasn't sure.
And so what I did was I ended up
searching through the WCAG specs, so
2.2 is the latest version.
It was released in December 2024, and
I ended up finding this section on focus.
And so I found the section on focus,
and it gets overwhelming but
truly it has a lot of the stuff
that we would expect to see.
So, it says what it's talking about,
then for each section it'll say,
is this AA or AAA, so you can see that
we've got a AA rule and a AAA rule.
It's got some notes, these are like
editorial comments that are like helpful
things for implementers as they're going.
And so what I ended up finding here was,
I was kinda reading through, and it says,
it's more vague than I'd like
it to be that's what I found.
So to be AAA compliant,
the focus indicator when visible,
needs to meet all of the following.
One, it has to be at least as
large as the area of a 2 CSS pixel
thick perimeter of the unfocused
component or subcomponent.
That's pretty straightforward, right?
It doesn't have to be 2 pixels, but
it has to be at least as big
as 2 pixels would be, right?
So it could be larger than 2 pixels, it
could be like an as long as it never gets
smaller than 2 pixels,
this is a pretty reasonable idea.
And then two, it has a contrast ratio of
at least 3 to 1 between the same pixels
in the focused and unfocused states.
This is more vague than I'd like it to be,
right.
So contrast ratio of 3 to 1 is like
very clear between the same pixels in
the focused and unfocused states.
So there has to be some contrast
between when it's not focused and
when it is focused.
But does the contrast have to apply
into the button as well as out
to the background or just one way.
My loose reading of it would be that
you technically only needed to have,
you could have a black button that
has a black 2 pixel ring on it.
I think that's a bad idea,
I don't think we should do that.
So if I had the time or energy, I would
submit a proposal to this spec saying
that, to be [APPLAUSE] compliant,
the 3 to 1 ratio needs to be both between
the background and
the inner focused state itself.
But, the kind of idea here being put
yourself in the mindset of an implementer
of a browser, not an application
developer, and kind of understand that,
every single thing ought to be written
in depth in the specification itself.
So you really should be able to dive in
here, and see if I'm building a browser,
what do I add as a focus state,
what does that need to be?
And you'll notice different browsers
will have different focus rings or
different date pickers, or different
color pickers, things like that, but
all of them adhere to this specification.
So those deviances are maybe areas that
we could have improved the spec, but
they all meet the exact
same when you hit escape,
what does it do all when you hit tab,
what does it do?
If you have two at the same time,
how do they behave?
Those kind of things.
Any specific questions?
I love talking about spec stuff, but
hopefully that at least gives you like,
this is what they look like,
this is how to navigate them, and
this is the tone that they're in and
the reason why they're in that tone.